Draft for updated journal club section (#21)
greenelab/onboarding: onboarding.md

    3. A daily virtual scrum update.

The daily virtual scrum update should include an update to [scrum repository](https://github.com/greenelab/scrum).
An issue is automatically created for each day the office is open.
These issues can be found [here](https://github.com/greenelab/scrum/issues).
The update should include the following:

    1. What specific item(s) he/she accomplished yesterday.
    2. What specific item(s) he/she plans to accomplish today.
    3. Who, if anyone, is blocking him/her?
    4. Who, if anyone, is he/she blocking?

**Lab Meeting:** Lab meeting is held weekly at a location at Penn and also virtually via [uberconference](https://uberconference.com/greenescientist).
Scheduling is managed via a google spreadsheet.
See the `#general` slack channel's pinned items link.
Lab meeting consists of two components described below.

- Journal Club
- Braintrust

**Journal Club:** This is an opportunity for lab members to strengthen their ability to comprehend and critically analyze research that has already been conducted.

> For journal club, everyone will be randomly split off into groups of two (or three if an odd number of lab members).

Reviewer: Is this like "think-pair-share" (zoom break out rooms) or is it like "presenting in teams"? I guess I am just a little unclear on what people are supposed to be prepping -- would it make sense to explain how/when the 4 papers are selected and when the groups are determined?

Reviewer 2: I was under the impression that the teams would be known at least a week or two in advance of the relevant meeting (so more like "presenting in teams"), and that people that are in a team together would then correspond prior to the meeting to decide on the papers and put together a presentation. Having something prepared in advance seems to me like the best use of the hour-long meeting.

But I'm curious to hear what other people think as well.

Author: @jjc2718 is correct. Basically groups would be assigned once the semester lab schedule has been finalized. So everyone would have plenty of time to correspond with their group member(s) on papers and topics to be discussed. If different idea is desired feel free to suggest changes or pitch your idea here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the beginning of each semester, everyone will be randomly spli into groups of two (or three if an odd number of lab members) for journal club.
```

> Presenters in these groups are expected to present on four papers.

Reviewer 3: Just to clarify. This means that 3 people are presenting on the same 4 papers?

Author: Right so if we have an odd number of people then one group will need to be three.

Three papers will be in the form of lightning talks - where presenters spend 5 to 10 minutes discussing the following: the overall goal of the work, any results presenters found interesting and the paper's implication for presenter's own research or any potential implications that touch on other ongoing research in the lab.
The final paper will be a more in-depth discussion where presenters will dive deeper into individual experiments and mention how these experiments tie into the paper's global scheme. 

> All selected papers except for one should have a publication date that is later than the most recent paper from your last journal club presentation.

Reviewer 4: For the first presentation, the paper date from the last presentation is NaN :D
Should we say published in the last year?

Author: >For the first presentation, the paper date from the last presentation is NaN :D
Should we say published in the last year? 

No. I'll update the section to make it clear for new presenters.

An example outline for presentations are provided below. 
For each lightning talk paper, the presentation should consist of:

1. A title slide
2. An overview slide (usually a flow-chart of some sort from the paper, could also be an initial result that sets context).

> 3. The results figure that convinced you to pick this paper.

Reviewer 4: It might be easier if we provide a Google Slides template with the guidelines already included in there as a starting point for folks. Something like [this one](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vUHVWczssPMEQsZuKBZX-ahs0A5Wioo3w7LVrnNAkz4/edit?usp=sharing).
Then we could save all presentations with a file format including date in a shared folder, so anyone can access. We should include all links here.

Author: Sound good. Will update section to show the template. Thanks for making the slides.

For the in-depth discussion, the presentation should consist of:

1. A title slide

> 2. Paper's global hypothesis

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Paper's global hypothesis: What do the author(s) want to know (motivation)? What are the key questions they want answered? Why do they think these question(s) are important?
```

> 2. Overall Experimental Design slide(s) (usually a flow-chart of some sort from the paper).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Overall Experimental Design slide(s) (usually a flow-chart of some sort from the paper). What data are they using? Why was it done that way? (context within the field)
```

> 3. Results from each experiment and how it ties to the global hypothesis

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Results from each experiment and how it ties to the global hypothesis. What is the design of the experiment? What are the controls? Evaluation metric? How does this figure relate back to the broad question of the paper?
```

4. Take home messages from the paper and how does the paper relate to research in the lab

> 5. (Optional) Brief discussion on possible follow up experiments

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. (Optional) Brief discussion on possible follow up experiments. Are the findings convincing?
```

- Journal Club
- Braintrust

> **Journal Club:** This is an opportunity for students to strengthen their ability to comprehend and critically analyze research that has already been conducted.
> For journal club, everyone will be randomly split off into groups of two (three if an odd number of students in the lab).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Journal Club:** This is an opportunity for lab members to strengthen their ability to comprehend and critically analyze research that has already been conducted.
For journal club, everyone will be randomly split off into groups of two (or three if an odd number of lab members).
```
I guess we're all students in some sense, but this phrasing might be slightly more inclusive of postdocs, etc. Otherwise looks good to me!
